The United States suspended the restrictions on imports form Burma just ahead of President Obama's trip.
"America is lifting the ban on companies doing business here, and your government has lifted restrictions on investment and taken steps to open up your economy," said Obama. "And now, as more wealthy flows into your borders, we hope and expect that it will lift up more people."
But sanctions against Burmese jade and rubies, considered the world's finest, are still in place.
Members of Burma's previous military government and their cronies still profit from the gem industry that remains tainted by its record using forced labor and children.
Gem mine owner and dealer Aung Kywa Zin claims labor abuses are a thing of the past and argues U.S. restrictions failed to curb the trade in jade while unfairly hurting family-owned business like his.
"Jade is especially for the China market, there is no America market," he said. "So, the current restrictions are not effective on jade market and business. Ninety-five percent of [precious stone] annual profit, $2 billion to $3 billion, are from jade selling. The profit form gems, like ruby and sapphire, selling are less than 5 percent [of the precious stone total]. Therefore, sanctions only affect gem & colored stone dealer."
Despite lingering concerns over labor practices, there are already signs stigma of doing business in Burma is fading and American companies are moving in.
Thaw Tin says his company plan to open two more shops exclusively selling Apple products.
He said despite import problem American brand are well known. "It's just a matter of how much you can import in and how many we can get them on shelf," he noted. "They just move by itself".
Major U.S investors are also eying Burma's market for opportunities, but are proceeding cautiously.
YGA Capital Managing Director Thura Ko Ko is advising the largest U.S equity firm in the world.
"Sanctions can be lifted or waived or suspend within a very short time," he explained. "But, if you can't wire dollars over, if you can't convert easily, if you can't wire funds outside, I think you'll still see challenges in the place of foreign investment."
President Barack Obama's unprecedented visit underscored the potential the U.S sees in Burma.
But his reception here also demonstrated the potential that Burma , long reliant on neighbors China and Thailand, sees in the US.
